Basic Questions:
1.) What is PostGreSQL?
It is a open source, lightweight open-source  relational database system.
It stores data in rows and colums in a structured format

2.) Benefits:

a.) Robustness that makes it suitable for all kinds of applications,
b.) Free and open-source,
c.) Security and reliability
d.) Wide variety of data types,
e.) A big community of users worldwide.

3.) Main applications

a.) CRUD operations in a database.
b.) Access , Manipulate and Delete data records
c.) Retrieve and summarize the necessary information from a table or several tables,
d.) Add or remove certain rows in the database

4.) CRUD operations
Create Read Update and Delete are the basic operations in the database. They are reffered to as CRUD 

5.) Database in PSQL?
It is structured storage space defined in rows and columns. They can be manipulated and summarised in a manner required.

6.) What is PGADMIN?
It is tool that helps in managing the database using a graphical user interface.

5.) What is a schema?
A database schema contains the logical and visual configuration of the entire relational database. 

6.) CONSTRAINT?
A set of conditions defining the type of data that can be input into each column of a table. 

7.) JOIN
Joins are used to combine and retrieve records from two or multiple tables.

8.) Primary key
A primary key is used to identify a row uniquely in a table.

9.) Different types of constraints

a.) CHECK
b.) NOT NULL
C.) UNIQUE
d.) PRIMARY
e.) FORIEGN KEY

10.) latest version of PostGreSQL
The latest version is 18

11.) Can PostGreSQL be run on cloud.
Yes , it can be run on cloud providers like Google, AWS and Azure

12.) How do you run the database using python?
using pl/python is a provider to manage the database.

13.) What is the maximum size of table:
The maximum size of the table is 32TB.

16.) 4 STEP basic acronym for database transactions
ACID
A -> Atomicity -> Each database operations is handled using a transaction and the transaction can be commited or aborted based on result being success or failed
C -> Consistancy -> Each database update or create must be handled based on CONSTRAINTS in the table to maintain database Consistancy.
I -> Isolation -> Multiple operations to a record in a table in the database must be handled indepenedently 
D -> Durability -> Any Crud operation in the database must be secure and remain in state irrespective or system crash or sytem durability.

17.) DataTypes in postgres:
Boolean
Numeric Types
Character Types
Temporal Types
Array
UUID
JSON
Store
Geometric data and other special types

18.) What does the term enable-debug mean?
It is used to make all the apps and libraries compile
This normally slows the machine and increases the size of the binary file.
This helps in discovering flaws and making improvements in the system.







